LEGAL STATUS  AND LANGUAGES  CORE COMPETENCIES  
EDUCATION  OLEKSANDR (Alex) FOROSHCHUK  
16975 Meadowlark St , Conroe  TX 77385| maloy22885@icloud.com  | 281 512 -8303  
CAREER  PROFILE  
SENIOR -LEVEL Welding  Specialist  
➢ Self-directed  and goal -focused  professional  with 16+ years of success  in Europe.  
➢ Maintained  relationships  and leadership  with teams of high-end partners  and professional s. 
➢ Successfully  completed  complex  welding  projects  that resulted  in the launching  of seven new ships . 
➢ Selected  to lead test projects  for jet engines  for an aircraft  factory  in England.  
➢ Special  project  invitation  to work on unique  welding  structures  for Winter Olympic  Games  2014 in Sochi, Russia . 
➢ High -quality execution of a ‘one of a kind’ wind tunnel for Formula -1 in Germany.  
➢ Superior  analytical  and relationship -building  skills.  
➢ Comfortable,  focused,  and organized  in high -pressure, high -output,  and fast-paced work  environments.   
 
◆ TIG/MIG, S MAW  welding  
◆ Project  Management  
◆ Reading  Blueprints  
◆ Cutting with acetylene, 
plasma , and propane  ◆ Problem  Resolution  
◆ Client  Relationships  
◆ Strategic  Planning  
◆ Quick learning  and adaptation  
  
 
 
Selmice,  Czech  Republic  - Shipyard  
Senior  Welder  May 2022 - Dec 2022 
Welding,  section  assembly  
Kherson Ukraine - Collision  Center  
Business  Owner  Feb 2016 - Feb 2022 
Body shop Technician , Welder,  Mechanic  
Full restoration  of cars after major accidents  using factory  technologies  
Szczecin,  Poland  - Shipyard  
Senior  Welder  Feb 2014 - Feb 2016 
Welding,  section  assembly  
Ship repairs  
Sochi,  Russia  - Park “Rivera”  
Senior  Welder  Jan 2013 - Jan 2014  
Complex  welding  structures  for Winter  Olympic  Games  2014  
Stati, Czech  Republic,  - “2JCP”  Engineering  Plant  
Lead Specialist  in Welding  and Assembly  Mar 2010 - Jan 2013 
Test benches  for jet engines  on order for an aircraft  factory  in England   
Fabricate u nique wind tunnel for Formula -1 testing for German  customer  
Ventilation  system  for U.S. plants  and seed -processing fans 
Piping and mechanical  systems  for European  plants  
Melnik,  Czech  Republic,  Shipyard  “Nova”  
Welder  Apr 2006 - Jan 2010  
Assembly  and welding  of tanker  superstructure s and captain’s  deckhouse s  
Welding  and assembly  of container  and dry cargo ship sections  
X-Ray welding work  
 
Kherson  National  Technical  University  | Kherson,  Ukraine  
Master’s  Degree of Science  | Standardization  and Certification  of Light Industry  
 
SSN, EAD (Work Permit) &  I-94 Form: fully legal to work in the US .  Fluent in Russian & Ukrainian, Limited English but learning quickly.  
  Personal Work Motto:  I deliver the highest quality at the fastest speed and encourage my coworkers to join me  in this work ethic.  PROFESSIONAL  EXPERIENCE  